.TH RADRELAY 1 "22 November 2001" "" "Cistron Radius Daemon"
.SH NAME
radrelay -- replicate accounting data to another RADIUS server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radrelay
.RB [ \-P
.IR pidfile ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR accounting_dir ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR config_dir ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR source_ip ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR secret ]
\fIserver detailfile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRadrelay\fP reads a file in the \fIdetail\fP file format,
reconstructs radius packets from it and sends them to a remote
radius server. When end-of-file is reached, the file is truncated.
\fBRadrelay\fP then waits until additional data to be written to
the file, and starts over again.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\-P \fIpid_filename\fP"
At  startup, \fBradrelay\fP writes  its  process-id to a file.
By default that is \fIvar/run/radrelay.pid\fP, this option
overrides that.

.IP "\-a \fIaccounting_directory\fP"

The base directory to use to read the detail file from.

.IP "\-d \fIconfig_directory\fP"

The directory where the dictionary and clients files are.

.IP \-f

Do \fInot\fP fork and run in the background as a daemon.

.IP "\-i \fIsource_ip\fP"
The source IP address to use for sending radius packets.

.IP "\-s \fIsecret\fP"
Normally the secret for the remote server is looked up in
\fI/etc/raddb/clients\fP. This option overrides the secret
specified in that file.

.IP detailfile
File to read the attribute/value pairs from. If this is not specified,
they are read from stdin.

.IP "server[:port]"
The hostname or IP address of the remote server. Optionally a UDP port
can be specified. If no UDP port is specified, it is looked up in
\fI/etc/services\fP. The service name looked for is \fBradacct\fP for
accounting packets. If a service is not found in \fI/etc/services\fP,
1646 is used.

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8),
doc/README.radrelay.
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
