.TH RADWHO 1 "23 Februari 2001" "" "Cistron Radius Daemon"
.SH NAME
radwho -- show online users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radwho
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR radius_dir ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR radutmp_filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cistron Radius server maintains an active session database
in a file called \fIradutmp\fP. This utility shows the content
of that session database.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-l
Show local shell users too. In this case, \fBradwho\fP reads the
local "session database" aka the systems \fIutmp\fP file as well
and shows the contents of that file before the contents of the
radius "session database" aka the \fIradutmp\fP file, in the
same format.
.IP \-h
Hide shell users. Doesn't show the entries for users that do not
have a SLIP or PPP session.
.IP \-f
Behave as the 'fingerd' daemon - waits for one line of input, then
prints the output with lines \\r\\n terminated.
.IP \-n
Normally radwho looks up the username in the systems password file,
and shows the full username as well. The \fB-n\fP flags prevents this.
.IP \-s
Show full name.
.IP \-i
Shows the session ID instead of the full name.
.IP \-p
Adds an extra column for the port type - I for ISDN, A for Analog.
.IP \-c
Shows caller ID (if available) instead of the full name.
.IP \-r
Outputs all data in \fIraw\fP format - no headers, no formatting,
fields are comma-seperated.
.IP "\-d \fIradius_dir\fP"
Path to the directory that contains the configuration files.
.IP "\-u \fIradutmp_filename\fP"
The path to the radutmp file, which is the session-database aka list
of logged in users. Defaults to (on most systems) \fI/var/log/radutmp\fP.

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8).
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.

.SH SEE ALSO
radiusd(8),
wtmp(5),
last(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
