.TH RADZAP 1 "22 Februari 2001" "" "Cistron Radius Daemon"
.SH NAME
radzap -- remove rogue entries from the active sessions database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radzap
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR radius_dir ]
.RB [ \-W
.IR radwtmp_filename ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR radutmp_filename ]
.I nas
.RB [ port ]
.RB [ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cistron Radius server maintains an active session database
in a file called \fIradutmp\fP. Commands like \fBradwho\fP(1)
use this database. Sometimes that database can get out of sync,
and then it might contain rogue entries. \fBRadzap\fP can
clean up this database.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-v
Verbose. Shows you what it is doing.
.IP "\-d \fIradius_dir\fP"
Path to the directory that contains the configuration files.
.IP "\-W \fIradwtmp_filename\fP"
The path to the wtmp-style accounting file maintained by the radius server.
Defaults to (on most systems) \fI/var/log/radwtmp\fP.
.IP "\-u \fIradutmp_filename\fP"
The path to the radutmp file, which is the session-database aka list
of logged in users. Defaults to (on most systems) \fI/var/log/radutmp\fP.

.IP nas
Hostname or IP address of the NAS (Network Access Server, sometimes
called "terminal server") of the session you want to remove.
.IP port
Port of the session you want to remove. This is the NAS-Port
radius attribute, it doesn't have anything to do with UDP port
numbers. Must be an integer. \fB-1\fP means "any", and is the
default if this option is not specified.
.IP username
Optional: the username of the session you want to remove.
.SH SEE ALSO
radwho(1),
radiusd(8).
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl.
